Semester Reflection
================
Evan Patton
11/29/2021

# Introduction

This blog post is for my final blog assignment for ST 558. The
assignment is to reflect on the semester and give an update on my
feelings about data science and R.

# Reflection

I believe coming into this semester I had a general idea about what data
science is and what data scientists do. This semester has confirmed my
initial beliefs, data science is the marriage of statistics and computer
science, therefore data scientists need to have a good understanding of
both.

My programming background before this course was about 1.5 years of self
taught R, a semester of SAS, and some very basic SQL and Python. R was
my favorite before this class and now that I have (just about) finished
this class R is now far and away my favorite. I love R because there
isn’t a limit to the amount of things you can do. Want to make an app? R
can do it. Want to create a professional looking report for work? R can
do it. Want to make awesome data visualization? R can do it!

Unfortunately there aren’t many ways to use R for my current job but I
do use it often in my personal life. I am hoping to transition from my
current career path of accounting to more of a data science path and the
R experience I have gained from this semester will be immensely helpful
in the future. However, in my personal life I plan to use a lot of
things in this class immediately. I play Daily Fantasy Sports every day
that there is an NFL or NBA game and I make my own projections for this,
the modeling we learned in this class will revolutionize my models for
those sports, I also do personal projects regrading NFL analytics and I
am thinking of using Shiny, Rmarkdown, and GitHub to create some things
to share with others and hopefully lead to a career in that field.

# Final Thoughts

I was at NC State for the final three years of my bachelors degree and
for a year of graduate classes now, and this may be my favorite course I
have ever taken. Dr. Post taught us a lot of difficult and complex
things this semester and made them very simple to understand. For
instance I was pretty much terrified of Shiny before the semester but
now I feel comfortable making apps in Shiny and am looking forward to
making some amazing apps in the future.
