Project One
================
Evan Patton
10/5/2021

-   [Introduction](#introduction)
-   [The Project](#the-project)
-   [Findings](#findings)
-   [Reflection](#reflection)
-   [Final Thoughts](#final-thoughts)

# Introduction

This post is for my first project in ST 558.

# The Project

My assignment was to create a vignette for an API, similar to this one
for some [NHL data](https://jkclem.github.io/nhl-api-vignette/). We were
given multiple choices of APIs to use, I chose the [Poke
API](https://pokeapi.co/) as I have always been a fan of Pokemon and
even though I am 26 years old will still play the new games when they
come out.

In order to do this I created a github repo, which can be found
[here](https://github.com/ejpatton4/ST558-Project1), and I enabled the
“pages” feature to create a site for my vignette this site can be found
[here](https://ejpatton4.github.io/ST558-Project1/).

For the vignette I created 8 different functions, one of which is a
wrapper function that allows the other 7 to be called from it, and these
functions allow users to query different parts of the Poke API.

After creating all of the functions, I show a basic example of how to
use them all. Finally, I do some exploratory data analysis with the data
that I queried in the vignette.

# Findings

While doing my exploratory data analysis, I did not uncover anything
ground breaking. However, I did find that there appears to be some
relationship between a Pokemons size and their Base Stats. In order to
find this I used the human BMI equation on a bunch of Pokemon and
created scatter plots between their BMI and each individual base stat.
The ones that appear to correlate the most were, Speed, Defense, and
Special-Attack.

# Reflection

I quite enjoyed this project. Being able to combine my new R programming
skills with an interest of mine that I have had since I was a little kid
was fun for me. I was also able to learn some new things, while I have
some R programming experience now I have never done something this
extensive. Completing this and being happy with my work has given me
great confidence moving forward that I can someday reach my dream of
being a data scientist.

If I could do anything differently, I think it would be two things.  
1. I would comment more throughout while I am creating the functions.
This time I created them and went back and added comments after they
were complete. This was a huge time drain and I think it would be more
efficient if I added them while building the functions.  
1. I would be more consistent in the way my functions *function*.
Looking back through my functions, I wasn’t always consistent in how
they were built, this bothers me a little bit and I will make sure
anything like this I do in the future will be more consistent.

The most difficult part of the project was the debugging of the
functions I created. Hopefully, I will get better at this with practice.

# Final Thoughts

I am pleased with the way this turned out, it has been a great
experience and I look forward to doing something like this again soon.
